---
title: The Waiting Game
date: 
wordCount: "313"
---
Today I dusted my 
    Shelves and cleaned 
    The house. 
    I smiled and softly 
    Sang all of the old 
    Songs that kept my 
    Heart aloft while I've waited.
   
All of my clothes 
    Live on one side of the 
    Little closet, the 
    Other side an empty hole. 
    Your toothbrush on the 
    Bathroom counter, still unopened. 
   
We've almost won the Waiting Game. 

I've wondered and wandered, 
    Borne faith, lost hope, 
    And found it right where I left it. 
    But today you come home, 
    And all of the questions we ever 
    Asked will be answered. 
   
Few have understood, 
    Most think I'm crazy, 
    How can you love someone you've never met? 
    But I've tried to find you 
    In every face I've seen 
    And every gentle embrace. 
   
Every misguided kiss, 
    Every lonely heartbreak, 
    All those times my 
    Soul cried out aloud 
    For you, and only you. 
    I guess it wasn't time. 
   
But that's the Waiting Game. 

Tonight, under 
    The waning moon, 
    Blare of street lamps, 
    And the weaving rain, 
    We step blindly into 
    Sunshine and roses. 
   
It's a funny world 
    That we live in, 
    Where you can make the 
    Storm clouds disappear with 
    A little love and dedication, 
    But so few ever learn how. 
   
I've cried, I've bled, 
    I've endured, survived, 
    And dug up faith in my darkest hours. 
    You never knew, never had a clue, 
    But your heart longed for me too, 
    And tonight is the first night of the rest of our lives. 
   
Thus our Game shall finally end. 

I know when I look into your eyes, 
    The first scent of your skin, 
    The first taste of your lips. 
    That moment reality sets in, 
    And we know miracles do happen, 
    The day this house becomes a home. 
   
So, my love, 
    Be brave, and step with confidence, 
    Let your heart lead you to me. 
    Follow your gut 
    And throw caution to the wind,  
   
Because we've waited too long.


---
Up to [[content/Poetry/The First Ones/_index|The First Ones]]


