---
title: When We Write
date: 2006-07-01
wordCount: "1135"
---
When we write, we create the best piece of Heaven on earth. As a poet, writer, painter, or any progenitor of artistic expression, we come to the battle for your emotions and spirit with a solid purpose- to move you to a place you have not or could not go before. 

I personally write from love. My art is created because I love totally and completely, and I do this because a young lady loved me first, in exactly the same way. Why she brought this state of emotion and spiritual blossoming to me, I cannot easily comprehend. Why I was so deserving of this great epiphany I cannot easily relate, you would be better served to ask her. But it is there, and it is the same seed that creates a Salvador Dali, Elizabeth Barrett Browning, or Vincent Van Gogh. 

She is older now, and I have learned that my love for her has crossed the normal limits I assumed I had, and continues to extend further into that cosmos of romantic mystery every day. I learn the meaning of infinite, and my passion within my art follows suit. Every day she is more beautiful, my heart grows more serene and crystal clear in this every time I hear her voice or think of her. My abilities, my drive to produce an inkling of the emotion I hold within requires I release it or I might psychically burst. That is the seed of true expression. I would take this love, this inspiration over a religion or god any day of the week. 

To display the contents of a lover’s heart takes strength, courage, and at times, the admission of human failure. But in these very lessons, a reader learns what is right, what is pure, in a world that tortures them consistently and perpetually like a butterfly in the sun’s created dervish. 

The events of the past twenty years hang around my neck like a string of pearl skulls, each one with a pain and a beauty, each one with a story, every strand a lesson of my love for another human being. I have chosen to be consumed by this, as it is my core, my essence, the whole of my very spirit. If I do not share this great blessing with the world, I do a disservice. I dishonor this love, hope, and my dreams. And like any other artist in the world, we as a whole cannot advance. 

For many, the motivation to create is esoteric, but for the true artist, the one who digs deep into the soul to birth the colossal examples that humanity will refer to for years, perhaps centuries to come, it is a mixture of love, loss, and pain. In my own minute experience, I have been blessed more than most. I have tasted a love, a passion that no other can replace or compare to. That is my motivation, my power. It amplifies when I am in her presence, and within her influence I find that the very seed that was once the pain of her loss has budded into a sacred hope, a fuel that one day I might find myself fortunate enough to see ignite into a combustible flame that overtakes me, pushes me beyond my known capabilities. 

She is to me what Gala was to Dali. A living work of art, where a breath in a distant place sparks a Sistine Chapel in my heart, a glance from her with the nominal expression brings a symphony before my eyes, and delivers tonal peace to my mind. This is what I deliver to my reader when I write of her. 

Sometimes our poems can be self-fulfilling prophecy. For almost ten years, I wrote with the dream of finding this jewel again, the person that set me on my own path to the person I am and cannot begin to express how humbled I am, how cowered before a universal power I have become that I could be found worthy to locate her again, to see those eyes that have laid my path before me, hear the voice that has been nothing more than a simpleton’s foolhardy wish inside a dream of her Paradise. 

The inspiration does not end. An artist and the muse are a union made of divinity, a bond that should not by right ever be torn asunder. For the muse without the artist is silent, her message dormant, and watching as a world that should know these wonderful ideas, remember what a true love, a palatable life should consist of, goes into the darkest despair of pain and literal Hell. We have but a single existence in this trip, and it should be staked up to be the best it can be. 

Pain is inevitable, but with wisdom and following what the core of the heart shows us, this pain can be cured, the daggers facing us pushed away. 

An artist without a muse is no artist at all, but rather a sycophant of the lowest stature, better to be coupled with those pseudo macho denigrates that refuse to acknowledge the sacred call an artists’ message provides in the first place. 

The fruit indicates the tree whence it came. 

Our message to the world is but a way to expel our demons, shine a bright light that we experience, or sometimes simply to make things right in the most fitting way possible. There is a message there, and if there is not, then I daresay you have a dabbler on your hands, whether they are great at their craft or not. 

For myself, I generally write to give someone outside of my skull a glimpse into exactly what it is I feel, what my spirit says in response to the weights of the world, or the glories of it. Some specific times, I expound on this in ways not germane to the love of my life, but more often than not, I go back to the core topic of my being. It was much this way for Beethoven, Monet, or Neruda. 

Now in the past months, the feedback has been incredible, and I find that my words do in fact lodge themselves into the general public in ways I had not envisioned. Some people find themselves imbued with a new hope and patience on their quest for fulfillment; others remain in their lackadaisical shell, spinning the hamster wheel of their own existence because that is simply more comfortable. To each their own. But at least I know I have done my job, and I shall keep doing it. 

When we write, we write for ourselves. When we write, we write for the people, things, and places we hold most dear. But ultimately, when we write, we write for all humanity.

---
Up to [[content/Essays/_index|Essays]]
