---
title: Bloodmonkey
date: 2006-07-20
wordCount: "2042"
---
The darkness suited him, fit like a cold, black glove around a broken, withered hand. Trying to blanket his mind, kill the human instinct, and cordon everything that would reverse this decision. He thought of seagulls, picking the rotting flesh from the beach on the mornings of red tide… 

It was the cold time of year, the soulless season, just as every single one had been for 34 years. He counted from one hundred as the ice burned his nostrils like fire, and the primordial beast fought him to regain control. This had to be done. It was a gift. 

He could taste the salt, in the gulps of sea water that invaded past his lips on every wave, the saline poison taunted him, buffeted him in a fury he was well adjusted to. It was the story of a feeble life, the longest joke in history. 

He was six when he saw her, the cute little girl on the playground, her blonde hair floating behind her like the finest ribbons, a miniature angel on her way to some peaceful cloud. He thought about her for days, gathering his nerve, and then finally wrote her a short little note. He was careful, every letter painstaking written in his childish scribble on a special piece he had chosen for his purpose. 

When the perfect time has come, when she gave him that little smile, he handed her the note. But his mother never prepared him for what happened next. He was encompassed by the throng of children, classmates, even the ones he had counted friends. He learned the truth the hard way... he had no friends. He felt their laughter, the little peals of joyous, mocking laughter, daggers that stabbed him repeatedly, releasing the invisible blood of love and confidence onto the sand below. 

To escape was not possible, they had him surrounded in a gauntlet he could not break from, pounded him mercilessly just because he was there and an easy target. A teacher finally saw the commotion and broke him free where he got a time out for passing notes on the playground. But they had made the cuts, the psychic blood spilled, and he fumbled with all of his childlike ability to keep his guts inside. 

That day he had gone home to his mother, cried, released all the little tears his eyes could hold, and she had given him the ultimate slap in the face. She had said, "Oh. Maybe they won't be so mean tomorrow," and went back to her soap opera. 

So he moved a little further into his shell, afraid to peek out, frightened to speak, for that brought pain and reprisal, two demons he did not want to ever face again. But as he got older, so did his desire for love, even the simplest form of affection. 

He was ten when his father found Jesus and unleashed him across his back like a storm, cold and full of needles. He would make Phaeton perform mundane tasks, and then reward him with a kick in the ass, once if he was lucky, usually two or three times, with the gentle reminder, "You are an idiot. If you're lucky, you might be a ditch digger, but at this rate, you'll be worthless at that, too." Phaeton tried to figure what he had done, why his road was so lonely, how he had become the Christ, ambling along in pain towards his own demise. With a full decade down, things had to look up at some point. 

At twelve, the winds of love would blow in his direction once again. He decided that perhaps it would be worthwhile to pick up the shards of his dignity and try again. He saw the target of his affections, clearly she was there, and he surveyed her every day and fantasized that maybe she would actually choose to like him. 

Young Phaeton Saint, heart full of love, eyes full of grace, worked extra jobs, saved his allowance, eyes aimed at one target: the largest box of chocolates at the Rexall drugstore. Perhaps that would say exactly what he was trying to tell her. 

Week after week went by and finally the day came, two days before Valentine's Day he went in with the forty dollars he had saved up and bought the biggest box of chocolates the store had. It wasn't about the chocolates, but about the effort. Any fool can get a ninety-nine cent box of candy hearts, but it takes a heart truly moved to place effort into the endeavor, and this was exactly what he had done. He wasn't even thinking about the dollar value of the item he had purchased, all his prepubescent mind could envision was her bliss, her joy at having someone think enough of her to do it the old-fashioned way, with hard work. 

He snuck in with the huge paper bag, gigantic offering inside, hiding it from everyone because if he was anything it was bashful. 

The world plays its favorites, and today would be no different. He idled up beside her when the bell rang, babbling like a fool, melting into a puddle looked deep into her eyes and said, "I...I w-wanted to give you something special for Valentines'..." Then he felt his face grow hot as he gently handed her the bag. His heart jumped, stopped, moved up into his throat. 

She looked at him, and he felt the sting of the blow before it fully hit. She coldly looked inside, examined the package, and then dropped it on the desk next to her with a thud. Her next words broke him, "I don't want to take anything from you." It was her look of total disgust that hurt the most, like he was a leper, skin dropping from the flesh, rot dripping into a stench. 

He slinked away, like a badly beaten dog, tail between his legs as she whisked herself away, plainly proud of her offense. The silence that followed him all the way home held at bay until he entered his room. Then the tears came like a full thunderstorm, sobs shook him like a tree in full gale. His mother interrupted the breakdown with a simple, "So you didn't give the candy to that little girl?” 

"S-She w-wouldn't take it..." and he sobbed. Her expression didn't change. She replied, "Oh. I'm sorry. Well, you wouldn't want all of this to go to waste. We'll just split it." But he wanted it to go to waste. He wanted to watch it rot, die; melt away into hell with every notion of romance he ever had. Instead, he watched her eat the box with his father, who was none the wiser of what had happened on that day. 

He added a healthy dose of calcium to his shell, strengthened it, more defensible. His soul grew colder and his emotions dripped the pus of decay. 

These were the stories that framed him; everything in his life had boiled down to this... He would see young lovers passing on their way, realizing in full that this was a joy, a true peace he would never know. When he saw young children with their parents, engaged in each other, the bond strong and true, he knew exactly what it was he had missed. It lay on his mind every second. 

He expected nothing out of himself because no one else ever had. It was with this thought in his mind he assessed precisely where he stood in the game of life, and determined that he had not only been stunted, he had never even left the starting gate. 

His desperation led to a notice in the paper about a singles cruise sailing the harbor from 9pm to one in the morning. He knew what he had to do. The lady was very nice when he applied and paid the entry costs, assuring him of all the fun to be had, all the beautiful women he would meet. He paraded himself in the fashion they desired, appeared a casual adult from the Vineyard rather than what he really was- an unemployed laborer without the education, finesse, or anything else he should have been or could have had. Let's face it... the faith well had run dry with no one ever taking a drink from it. 

Life is pain, and his was no longer bearable. It had infected every waking thought like a cancer, a growth that planted itself on the back of his brain, growing day by day and exploding in sparks, stabbing lights of self-effacing horror. It had to be extracted, someway, somehow. It had to stop. He had done nothing for this experience to be this horrible, terrifying. He knew the truth of the matter. 

That night arrived, and he dressed to the hilt, spent the last of his savings to go all out, he cashed in his chips at the highest end tailor he could find, found a suit that most stock brokers would kill for, and as he found himself seated on the boat, he slipped all identification that could mark him, give any proof of who he had been known as in life into the harbor. Phaeton was taking a trip, one that suited his mediocrity. 

Saint had tried to fight the world, but it was now clear that the world would surely win. It trapped him, back to the large stone wall, cold, surrounded. There was only one way to escape, to find peace. Only one way to make himself pure and right. The knells tolled like a huge resounding drum in his ear; the panic rose deeper and wider from his gut into his throat, choking off all that had once made a difference in this experience. 

The young man next to Phaeton was busy chatting up a pretty little brunette, and didn't notice when he kicked his legs back, and took flight over the side. He felt weightlessness, release, tried not to brace for the impact of the coal-colored water below. He forced himself to forget the smell of fuel, and the wash from the propellers as he hit ice water with a deliberate, solid thud. 

This would be the hard part, but the end result would culminate the period at the end of a hideous sentence he had discovered as life, the taste of it soiling his palate. He could see every face, every event as they sadly passed before him, a mummer’s masquerade of pure evil and rejection. How had it all come to this? He was supposed to be worth something! Someone somewhere was meant to have valued him, but that person never arrived, and this was a sugar he would never taste. No sweet could ever overcome the acidity of a life so bankrupt and sour. 

The crime of which he was guilty was breathing. His self necrosis was the gift to all he had known, for he had pleaded guilty of his failure and accepted his punishment without even a bleat. They would mock him now as they had always done before, nothing would change, nothing new. He knew this fact deep within his soul, against the walls of his heart it was pinned there, like a pinup girl on a sailor's wall, just nailed with ten-penny nails to the quick. The world was not his friend; they never held his favor, counted him within their ranks. They were the crowd chanting for Barabbas, and Pilate was not cutting any breaks. 

Things had sunk in; his life's message had been etched indelibly into stone. He was no longer Phaeton Saint; he was now the footnote, the postscript in a sad saga or a cruel joke called life. As he felt the hook hit him in the back, he welcomed the quick zoom of final darkness that took him like a fish in the eagle's claw and swallowed him whole, just like his existence had. All sound ceased. All was silent. He was exactly had they had said he was in life, worthless, a coward, not even deserving of a noble end. But that was all over, all finished now. Their laughter, the daggers, was mute. 

He was bloodmonkey.

---
Up to [[content/Short Stories/_index|Short Stories]]
