---
title: Unfinished Business
date: 2006-07-15
wordCount: "3620"
---
He sat down by the docks for as long as I could remember, the oilskin coat pulled around tight, a worn maroon sock cap covering his grey head. Every day, he was planted there, like a tree with its roots in the water, soaking up everything the sea and its wonder offered. 

I first saw him when I worked for my father, a fisherman who spent every early morning out on the water, and every afternoon separating the salable catch from the chum, then making some into various stews and chowders the other local fishermen would use to sustain themselves while working from their own catch. The old man looked a little younger but the lines on his face told me he had led a life of suffering. 

At first, he frightened me; he carried an air about him, that made you think he was some nobleman or king of old, and the feeling being near him always made you feel you were beneath him. Yet every single day he came down to the pier and sat, waiting for something, I couldn't imagine what. 

The first time I approached him, it was raining, a hard, cold rain. I still recall the water coursing down the hood of his coat, the rivulets of freezing water, and my father saying, "Damn Cole, he's gonna kill himself if he doesn't cut this shit out." He ladled out a portion of the daily rot as he called it into a white styrofoam cup, handed me a spoon and said, "Boy, take this to him before he starves his fool self to death." I felt like I was approaching the throne of God. The man, huddled in the freezing cold when most of the other sailors had packed their business, iced the product, and went home, still sat with a purpose. He was superhuman. 

"Daddy said to give you this..." I addressed him, "... Sir," I added as an afterthought. As he turned, I saw the ice-blue eyes that cut straight through me like a sharp boning knife through a sturdy carp. He smiled, a grin that felt as if he knew my every thought, stripped me clean and naked, and scared the bejeezus out of me. The cold wind whipped and hit me in a blast as he reached out and said, "You're a good one. I appreciate it very much. Tell your daddy he makes some mean business here.” 

That was the first time I saw the ring. It was silver, with a crown, a heart, and two hands. He wore it on his wedding finger, so I wondered in my childish way where the wife was. 

I would ask my father about him, but he would just shake his head wearily and say, "You're gonna have to ask him about that one." I didn't have the bravery to. And each day I would come to the pier to help my father, and he would be there, Old Cole as the other fishermen called him, sitting at the edge of the pier, staring out on the horizon. And every afternoon as the rot had stewed into a delicate substance, I would take him his portion in the same kind of white styrofoam cup. It was almost like we were making an offering to his presence. 

At thirteen, he finally called me to have a seat beside him. 

"You ever been in love?" He asked me. 

"I don't know," I answered, "I don't think so.” 

"Well, you will, boy, you will. So here's a piece of free advice..." he patted me on the leg and continued, "When you find her, don't leave, don't budge. Stand your ground and swear you will not move a single muscle until she gives you her heart completely. And then don't let her out of your heart's sight for a single second or she will fade with the Noreaster winds. Don't lose your own life like I have.” 

"You certainly look alive to me, sir," 

"That, my boy, is simply a matter of opinion.” 

"So, where is Mrs. Cole?" His face turned worn and tired. 

"Mrs. Cole never became Mrs. Cole. I lost her, and somewhere in there she married another man.” 

"Is that why you sit here? I mean, you're here every day, and no one will tell me why.” 

"I'm waiting.” 

"What are you waiting for?” 

With an exasperated tone he answered, "I'm waiting for her to come home.” 

"So why doesn't she?” 

"Question of the century..." he stated, gazing off across the water. He looked down at a fish directly below us, just under the surface. "See that guy there?" he pointed, "Now he knows our boys have our nets out just down from here, but he figures that instead of swimming just a little above the current and being safe, he can just swim with the flow and all will be right with the world...” 

"But if we have nets...” 

"Let's say I can bet you twenty bucks he'll be in our stew tomorrow." Cole twirled the ring on his finger and continued, "Hard lesson... sometimes life will take a person and kick them in the balls so many times they see stars, then boot ya again just so she knows you felt it." He spat into the water. 

"Was that what she did to you?” 

"Heavens, no. That's what was done to us. That girl would never hurt me. We spent a better part of fifteen years trying to find each other. By the time I found her, the damage had been done.” 

"Damage?” 

"Like I said, she married another man. That changes things. I love her, and she loves me, but there is such a beast as pride, and it's a soulkiller. You will find out as you get older that what you think is right and what is wise and just, are not the same.” 

"I don't get it," I told him. 

"Okay." He made a fist, "Imagine that this is a diamond, and I put it in your hand. You drop it into the water. What are you gonna do?” 

"Jump in after it!” 

"Obvious to you and me, right?” 

"Yes, sir...” 

"Not so obvious to other folk. Another would assume they lose the diamond, no chance of finding it. A ruby in the hand is better than a diamond on the ocean floor.” 

"That doesn't sound right..." I said. I couldn't understand why anyone would pass up a diamond that big. I didn't get the concept or what he was really saying until much later. 

"Like I said. Obvious to you and me. So I wait. I promised her I would wait, on the ocean floor, just like that diamond, until she could dive in and claim me. I think I do it hoping one day she will realize I am the unfinished business she was meant to complete.” 

"Sounds boring.” 

"Well, I think about her, and that makes the waiting worth it. But she'll show. I believe in her, and she's a sharp girl. So, run along, remember what I said, and tell your dad he's still got the magic touch.” 

Soon after that, at my father's behest, I walked Old Cole home. He had an apartment in a building three blocks from the pier, and since we lived a little piece down, my dad considered it a passage into adulthood. 

The first thing I noticed was a yellowed and worn note on his door that he took down every night, with the short words: 

Anna, 
If you came here, I am waiting for you at the pier. Don't be slow. 
I love you always, 
Elander 

And the ritual continued every night, I'd walk him home, he'd take the note, and with a tired smile wish me goodnight. This went on for almost five years. I'd learned quite a bit about him, he had a son, Lauren, that would show up every week to bring him money, food, and books to read. I would excuse myself when he was there, not wanting to intrude on their conversations. 

But I saw more and more of him, and my father welcomed him at the pier, as he arrived before we closed to eat and check in on his dad. 

They would bicker, about a variety of things, and one night I sat in on the brouhaha. I was seventeen, and I had already had my first kiss. Things that he had told me in my youth were suddenly vivid to me, I began to grasp the totality of Old Cole's lot in life. 

He was a legend among the sailors, who are always in awe of a good, honest-to-god love story. They regarded him as a local hero, and some had even called him Captain. 

But tonight, the conversation had turned to love, and Lauren had gotten emotional and heated. 

"You know what your problem is, Dad?" He asked Cole, "You're too good of a man. Too good. She never deserved a man like you." 

Cole's eyes flashed fire. "Don't you ever say that to me again!" He growled with menace. "God has never to this very day put a woman more deserving, more perfect, on this very planet for me to love than her! If you are going to talk trash, you'd better think it all the way through first. No woman has earned my total dedication like her. And that includes your mother!” 

"Okay," Lauren said more softly, "Okay." He threw his hand into the air, trying to keep the peace. "But I will say this: you are so fucking stubborn it hurts. I can't stand to see you like this, every day waiting for this big momentous day that frankly, I doubt will ever come.” 

"She'll show. I'm just being patient. I'm keeping my word.” 

"But why?" He quizzed huffily, "What's the point? You're still young enough to find another woman. You still have good years left in you, years to make someone happy...” 

"I'm not a hand tool.” 

"I didn't say that. But you can still have a future, that's all I'm saying.” 

"I do have a future. Anna is my future. She was my future when I was his age," Cole said in a dull voice, jerking a thumb in my direction, "And she will still be my future when she comes home.” 

"Dad, I love you very much. You know that. But you are really making me want to smack the shit out of you right now. Are you even remotely aware that for most of your adult life that there have been women that would have given their eyeteeth to share everything with you?" He waved his hand around, "They would have even shared with you in this dump! I don't understand. I will never understand...” 

"That, my boy, is a very true statement. You would have to be me. You would have to look in her eyes, kiss her, peek into her soul and peel the layers back. You think I'm good? You think I am all gold? You haven't seen a damn thing until you see her the same way I do.” 

Lauren took a deep breath and placed his head into his hand. "We will have to agree to disagree. I swear to God, I don't know which of you two is more of an idiot- you for doing this nonsense, or her for not getting it." His voice grew somber as he muttered, "Sarah and the kids are worried about you. I'm worried about you. And now that Mom's gone... You're wandering in circles. I know that if Sarah loved me half as much as you love Anna, I'd crawl on my hands and knees through broken glass to get back to her. I wouldn't live my life on the other end of the fucking universe...” 

"That's because you have my blood in you." Cole grinned. 

"Motherfucker! Do you always have the last word? Can't I ever finish an argument?” 

"Yes, and no." He smiled wickedly. 

Lauren waved his hand in frustration like he was going to scream, then placed his hand on his father's head and kissed him. "I love you, Dad. But I have to get back home to Sarah. You gonna be okay?” 

"I'm okay. I'll be fine. I love you, too, son. But take Joe with you on the way out. I have work to catch up on.” 

Lauren led me to the door, and I went home, the following days and months bringing the same ritual as always, Cole on the dock with a smile and a hope, the note on the door, and the rot, steaming, a little different every day. I was turning eighteen in a week, and every day his words churned in my head. We were reading books and poems this man had written in school for our Literature class, and I would think just how ironic it was that this classical literary genius spent a large part of every day sitting on the dock waiting for his true love. The single secret I shared with a village of the eccentricity of a brilliant mind. 

Right after Thanksgiving was when the turn began. Lauren was with my father at the dock, and Daddy put a crab in front of him, handed him a mallet and said, "Beat the shit out of that. It'll make you feel better." But his face was worried. Lauren's was red, his eyes puffy. Nailed to the upright beam of the shanty with an icepick was a newspaper clipping that read: 

Anna Lorraine Cranston 
67, of Bostwick, MA, died Thursday. 
She is survived by her husband, Edward 
Cranston, two children, and five grandchildren. 
Services will be held at Strathmore Funeral 
Home on Sunday, December 4th at 2pm. 
Donations to the Survivors' Fund in lieu 
of flowers. 

"Does he know?" I asked, glancing to the figure seated on the dock. 

"No..." Lauren nodded, "I haven't got the nerve yet. This will kill him. Of all the things in the world, this will do it." He looked dead, like everything had just seeped out of him into the blood-soaked ice with the fish guts. 

"You're going to have to do this," Dad said to him. "He's been waiting for thirty years. I think he's earned it by now.” 

Lauren yanked the icepick from the beam with a sense of righteous fury. "This is gonna suck!" he hissed. I watched as he stumbled towards his father, every step moving slower and slower as he took a seat. The old man took the paper and held it. I heard a laugh, a cough, and a voice that sounded like it came from another planet. 

"Oh, my fucking god..." The old man kept repeating the same words over and over in shock, the laugh nervous, "Oh, my fucking god." Father and son sat on the pier together, Lauren's shoulders jerking as he sobbed for the man who had created him, given him every piece of himself for 42 years. The feeling of destitution swept through the boardwalk like a black fog. Then I saw him kiss his father, stand, and dawdle back towards us. 

"He says he'll see you tomorrow. Call me in the morning. I want to make sure he's okay. You have the number." Dad nodded and eyed Cole, still on the dock as Lauren walked heavily away through the snow. 

"I've never met a more stubborn sonofabitch in my life," he said furiously, chopping the clams much finer than they were ever meant to be. He stopped momentarily, pointed the knife at me and said sharply, "But if I were half the man he is, I'd be God." He blinked and kept chopping. 

I could see Cole's back, hunched, holding in his ringed hand the paper clipping. Like he was releasing a feather onto the wind, he let go and followed the path of the obituary as it floated, finally lighting onto the salt water, soaking, and holding its buoyancy like a piece of lost litter. Something felt so wrong, so painfully unjust. Every piece of faith I had ever had cracked like hot water on freezing glass in January. 

He struggled to raise himself, and I rushed to help him steady his aging frame. 

The walk that night was quiet. He didn't feel the need to speak, it had all been said within the pain on his face. My heart broke alongside his, though I didn't know exactly why, or how deep love's knife had cut. 

When we arrived at his place, he turned and placed the swollen hand with the silver ring on my head and said, "Joe, you're a good boy, and I believe you will be a better man. I have given you the only true word of advice you will ever need in your life. Use it. Don't forget it. Don't be fucking stupid." He then pulled me close and gave me a strong hug, the kind you see when you watch the old Russian films, a manly thing. 

As he opened the door with a grimy key, he looked back and said, "All I ask is that you remember. Nothing more." Then he disappeared through the oak, and I returned home. 

Daddy was distraught when I got to the pier the next morning. Something was missing, and I knew from the broken look on his face immediately that it would hurt. Cole was nowhere to be seen. "Son, how was Mr. Cole when you took him home last night?” 

"He wasn't feeling so well..." I saw the tears began to form as my father turned. He rubbed his eye with a cracked hand, then reached for the stack of styrofoam cups he had moved rot in for as long as I could remember. As he ladled, he said, "Joe, take this to Mister Cole. Maybe he's just under the weather..." We both knew it was a lie. I had watched Old Cole sit on the pier spitting phlegm into the ocean, blue and running a fever, snow and ice packed hard around his behind to keep him erect and from falling into the water. No man had ever been dedicated to a single purpose as he had been to the wait for his Anna. 

On the way to find him, I recalled again the words he had said to me as a thirteen year old naive boy, "When you find her, don't leave, don't budge. Stand your ground and swear you will not move a single muscle until she gives you her heart completely. And then don't let her out of your heart's sight for a single second or she will fade with the Noreaster winds. Don't lose your own life like I have.” 

I walked the leathery stairs to his flat, the same room I had led him to every day for almost five years, and found the key under the mat, right where I knew it would be. He was in his chair, motionless. The fire had been dead for quite some time, and the room held a daunting chill of despair. 

"Mister Cole?" I called to him, but he remained silent, staring at the same fading picture of the young couple in love that had been there in the same spot on the wall from the first time I had entered his apartment. 

"Mister Cole, we were worried about you. Daddy sent some chowder for you..." Nothing. Not a single sign of acknowledgement or motion. I crossed the room, and looked into the flat eyes, a slight, knowing smile on his face. I touched his hand to wake him, but he was cold, like the ice I had helped pack fish in for the better part of ten years. 

Now I am older. I cry like a lost baby when I write this. I understand the advice he gave me in my youth, and in many ways, it has spared me from certain soul destruction. I remember him vividly, I think of him often, when I look in the eyes of my wife and my children. Because of his advice, I proposed to my wife with the resoluteness and force of a hurricane. I never left her side, never let her get away, and I have been richly blessed for it. I remember the sadness of his son, who felt the pain of his father so passionately and stubbornly in love. I remember the honor and rapport he held with the fishermen of our village, and how he made better men out of all those he met when I think of my father. But it is that look I will never be able to erase from my mind. He was smiling, like he shared a self-effacing cosmic joke and I was not in on it, but his eyes cried ten thousand tears of loss and mourning. 

Many things will be said about Elander Cole. How he was a talented writer, one of the greatest minds of the twenty-first century, how his words could push one to anger, or bring them to tears, how his tales of unfaltering love moved an entire generation. But I know Elander. I saw that smile, and no one can convince me, he may have finally realized the greatest love of his life, completed the business that should so desperately have been finished before I was even thought about, but I know what Elander Cole died from on that cold, lonely night. 

He died from an irreparably broken heart, for she never finished the only business that ever mattered to him. That was the business of a pure love I will never be man enough to know.

---

Up to [[content/Short Stories/_index|Short Stories]]
