---
title: Lost Dreams and Army Greens
description: Dreams fade faster than a strip mall’s glow.
---
Youth’s dreams burn bright until reality cashes the check.

Off Georgia State Highway 20 is a vacant lot, now overgrown in high fescue and other assorted weeds. Time has a way of taking memories that used to mean something when they had a physical representation and wiping the slate clean.

At this point, you're left with nothing but your mentioned memories, and the rest is like your pocket after you fork your last $100 bill to a carney at a roadside pop-up carnival. Maybe that was just me.

In the ‘80s, the strip mall held a Belk’s, an Ingles, and a bookstore for my first poetry reading, and a hobby store that sold comic books and Dungeons and Dragons gear against my mother's desires.

The other suites that garnered my attention all had a specific purpose, and that was military recruitment. Why might I be interested in those?

It was about a girl.

It's always about a girl.

The throes of young puppy love had caught me, the same way she grabbed my heart that chilly morning when she grabbed my sleeve on the school walkway and wouldn't let go. The only wrinkle was the fact that I wasn't a puppy anymore. I was a junior in high school, though, and somewhere in the testosterone overload, I was thinking a long game. I had a pipe dream loaded, and it was attached to every pining pop love song and hard rock ballad, since that was where my brain was in those days.

I'd seen the ad in a magazine I was skimming in the school library, so I did what any young teen would do who lacked a sense of consequence. I neatly lined up the magazine to the edge of the table and stole it with a barely audible rip. No one heard or caught me in my periodical theft.

My idea was not the most sane, and somewhere deep in my gullet, I knew it. If you asked my father, he would posit that I lacked good sense. He was possibly correct.

On this day, I'd turned 18. I was a free man who was still a kid in reality, green as a golf course in the spring.

Staff Sergeant Wade was a tall black man who was friendly, calm, and of few words. I'd met him once when the high school made us take the ASVAB (Armed Services Vocational Aptitude Battery) test. I had scored a composite of around 140, which qualified me for my pick of jobs, and this score was what caught SSG Wade's attention. He made a beeline for me, much to my surprise, not understanding what any of this meant.

I just knew I wasn't going into the Navy. The Marines had cooler uniforms, for sure.

My mother asked me what I wanted for my birthday, and I told her I wasn't too concerned about it, but I really wanted to see what the recruiters had to offer before I tried applying to colleges.

I lied to my own mother. I know.

I had every intention of signing up with someone by the end of the night.

Not being one for small talk, I popped my head into the other services just to say I did and quickly moved to the Army Recruitment Office with my gullible self.

Unfolding the print ad in my pocket of two men working on a mountainside with a satellite dish, I laid it on his military issue desk, jabbed a youthful finger into the center of it, and said, "I wanna do that. If I do that, will I be able to get married and have a family?"

Wade looked at the ad as if he'd lost his reading glasses.

"Sure. Lemme check something," he answered, retrieving a binder with reams of computer printout. "That's a 36 Mike, and you certainly have the scores for it. I can have you in basic training next month." SSG Wade answered, appearing proud of himself.

I never thought to ask him what exactly a 36 Mike _was_.

He sold me a Reserve commitment with a split option. That meant that I would go to Basic Training, then finish high school, and attend Advanced Individual Training, where I would learn my chosen job.

By the end of 30 minutes, I had surrendered my freedom and personal autonomy to a new Uncle.

His name was Uncle Sam, and he would have many gifts for me in my future. Some kept on giving.

This decision also helped me lose my virginity in the following 24 hours.

My mother was shocked, and my father was impressed that I'd made this decision on my own. Neither of them knew about the deflowering of their son.

Grandpa, a WWII veteran of the 13th Armored Division and a prisoner of war during the Battle of the Bulge, was as proud as a new rooster. He grinned and winked. He also knew exactly what was going on when he met the girl.

I had no idea that the kiss before I shipped out on that June morning would be the end of that relationship.

And so, it died.